---
title: "API Methods in ExpressJs"
description: "API Methods in ExpressJS"
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

## REST ( Representational State Transfer ) API standard

## There are basically five methods of `web API` (Application Programming Interface).

### 1.GET

The `GET` method in HTTP requests data from a specified resource (such as a web server). It's used to `fetch` or `read` information like `web pages, images, files, or data stored` on a server without altering the resource's state. Body not allowed .

### 2. POST

The `POST` method in HTTP `sends data` to a server to `create  a resource`. It's commonly used to `submit form` data or `upload files`, and it can `cause` changes or side effects on the server's state, such as `adding` a new user.

### 3. PUT

The `PUT` method in `HTTP` is used to send data to a server to `update or replace` a resource identified by a `specific URL`. It typically `updates the entire resource `with the `new data provided` in the `request payload, making` it useful for operations that require `complete replacement` of existing data, such as `updating user information or replacing` an existing file.

### 4. PATCH

The `PATCH` method in HTTP is used to send partial data `updates to a server`, allowing modifications to `specific fields` of a resource `without replacing the entire resource`. It's useful for making `minor updates` or `corrections to existing data`, such as changing a `user's email address or updating specific attributes` of a document

### 5. DELETE

The `DELETE` method in HTTP requests the `removal` of a specified resource from the server. It `deletes the resource` identified by the URL,`causing a permanent removal` of the resource from the server's state. This method is commonly used to `delete records or files,` and it does not typically return any `response` body upon successful deletion.

## Ways to pass data to APIs

### query

### param

### body

### headers
