---
title: JavaScript Interview Questions
description: "JavaScript Interview Questions"
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

<details>
<summary> 1. What is JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

JavaScript is a object oriented scripting language used to develop web applications. It is `client side` langauage. It supports all browers every browser has search engine to execute code.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  2. What is alert() function?</summary>
<p>

The alert() function is used to display a pop-up box with a message and an `ok` button. It is used to give important information to the user.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   3. What are the features of JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

- JavaScript is a client-side language.<br/>
- Open source<br/>
- Object-oriented<br/>
- Light weight<br/>
- Cross-platform<br/>
- Web scripting<br/>
- JavaScript is case-sensitive.<br/>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   4. What is let keyword in javascript?</summary>
<p>

`let` keyword used to declare variables in JavaScript. Variables defined using let cannot be `re-declared`. In let first we declare variable and second time we used so there is no need to write second time. It can be declared without initialization or it cannot accessed without initialization.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   5. What is the console.log() function in JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

`console.log()` is used to print any message that needs to be displayed to the user.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   6. How do you use external JavaScript file?</summary>
<p>

To add an external JavaScript file you can use the script tag in the attribute `src`. The value of the src attribute should be the `path` of your JavaScript file. The &lt;script type="text/javascript" src= "path"&gt;&lt;/script&gt; tag should be placed in the head section in the HTML document.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   7. How do you add JavaScript in HTML element? </summary>
<p>

To add JavaScript code in an HTML document, we can use the &lt;script&gt;... &lt;/script&gt; tag. The &lt;script&gt; tag should be placed in an HTML document head or body section depending on where you want to load JavaScript.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   8. How do you declare a variable in JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

To declare variable in JavaScript, you use the syntax `keyword variablename`. There are three ways to declare variable. Var, let and const.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary> 9. What is the difference between let, var and const keyword in JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

The scope of the `var` variable is the functional scope. Var can be updated and re-declared in scope. It can be declared without initialization.

`let` allow us to declare a variable that is limited to the scope of a block. In let first we declare variable and second time we used so there is no need to write second time. It can be declared without initialization.

The scope of the `const` variable is block scope. It cannot be updated or re-declared in scope. It cannot be accessed without initialization because it cannot be declared without initialization.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  10. How do you check the type of a variable in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

You can check the type of variable using `typeof` operator.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   11. Is it possible to break JavaScript Code into several lines?</summary>
<p>

Yes it is possible to break JavaScript code using escape character `\n`.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  12. What is the use of confirm() function in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

`Confirm()` are used to give confirmation from the user. When you give positive or negative feedback from the user then you can use the `confirm()` function. When the user clicks `ok` button its return `true` feedback and when user clicks `cancel` button then its returns `false` feedback.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   13. What is the purpose of prompt() function in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

The purpose of the `prompt()` function is used to give input from user. In prompt() function you pass one message that message show in prompt popup.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   14. What is a ternary operator? </summary>
<p>

The `syntax` of the ternary operator is

    condition ? expression1 : expression 2

If the condition is `true` then expression 1 is executed. If the condition is `false` then expression 2 is executed.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   15. What is an operator and what are their types in Javascript? </summary>
<p>

Operators are used to perform certain operations on one or more values or variables. There are some common type of operator in JavaScript.

- Arithmetic operators<br/>
- Comparison operators<br/>
- Logical operators<br/>
- Assignment operators<br/>
- Bitwise operator<br/>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  16. What is the difference between == and === in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

The difference between both operators is `==` operator is used to compare value. And `===` is used to compare both values and types.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  17. Explain the conditional statments in JavaScript.</summary>
<p>

A conditional statement that allows you to execute different blocks of code based on different condition.

1. `if`: `if` statement in JavaScript is used to execute a blocks of code if a specific condition is true.

`Syntax`

```
if(condition)
{
 //statement
}
```

2.  `if-else`: The `if-else` statement in JavaScript is used to execute different blocks of code based on the condition. The `if` block is executed if the condition is `true` and the `else` block isexecutedd if the condition is `false`. .

`Syntax`

```
 if(condition)
 {
   //statement
 }
 else
 {
   //statement
 }
```

3.  `nested if`: `nested if` statement is a conditional statement that is nested within another conditional statement. This is useful when you need to test multiple conditions in order to execute a block of code.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary> 18. How do you take input from users in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

You can take input from user by using `prompt()` function. That allows you to display a dialog box with a message and an input field for the user to enter value.

`Syntax`

```
prompt(message, default);
```

The `message` parameter is string that specifies the message to display in the dialog box and the `default` parameter is an optional string that specifies the default value to display in the input field.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary> 19. Explain if-else statement in JavaScript</summary>
<p>

The `if-else` statement in JavaScript is used to execute different blocks of code based on the condition. The `if` block is executed if the condition is `true` and the `else` block is executed if the condition is `false`.

`Syntax`

```
 if(condition)
 {
   //statement
 }
 else
 {
   //statement
 }
```

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  20. Explain the document.write() function.</summary>
<p>

The `document.write()` function in JavaScript that allow to display text in browser window.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>    21.  What is a string in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

`String` is a sequence of character. It is represented in `single` quotes and `double` quotes.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   22. What are the pop-up boxes in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

There are three types of `pop-up` boxes in JavaScript.

1.  `alert()`: The `alert()` function is used to display a pop-up box with a message and an `Ok` button. The message can be text, error or confirmation message that you want to display to the user.

2.  `confirm()`: The `confirm()` function are used to give confirmation `(cancel/ok)` from the user. When you give positive or negative feedback from the user then you can use the confirm() function.

3.  `prompt()`: The `prompt()` function are used to take input from user. In prompt we pass one message that message show in prompt popup.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  23. What are the different data types in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

`Datatype` is a type type of information which is stored in variabe. There are two types of datatypes.

1.  Primitive datatype:
    Primitive datatypes are immutable means they cannot be changed once they are created. There are 7 primitive datatypes.

- number
- null
- String
- Symbol
- Boolean
- Big-int
- undefined

2.  Non-primitive datatype: Non-primitive datatype: They are mutable means they can be changed once created.

`Object`: The object is a collection of key-value pair.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   24. What is the difference between null and undefined in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

The difference between null and undefined is the `null` is a primitive datatype and the variable is assigned to null means they don't have a value. The `undefined` means the variable is declared but its value is not assigned.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   25. What is a switch statement in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

The `switch` statement provides a convenient way to execute different blocks of code depending on the value of a variable or expression.

The `syntax` of switch case is:

```js
switch (expression) {
  case value1:
    // Code to be executed if expression matches value1
    break;
  case value2:
    // Code to be executed if expression matches value2
    break;
  case value3:
    // Code to be executed if expression matches value3
    break;
  default:
    // Code to be executed if expression doesn't match any of the values
    break;
}
```

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   26. Can you explain what a switch statement and how it is used in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

A `switch` statement is a type of conditional statement in JavaScript that allows you to test an expression against multiple cases. It is a more convenient way to write multiple `if` statements that check the same expression.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary> 27. What happens if you forget to include a break statement in a switch case?   </summary>
<p>

If you forget to include a `break` statement at the end of a `case` block, the code will continue executing the next `case` block, even if the condition is not true.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   28. What is function in JavaScript? Explain its types. </summary>
<p>

A `function` in JavaScript is a block of code that performs a specific task and can be called or executed multiple times. There are two types of functions.

1.  `Inbuilt function`: Inbuilt function means that meaning is already define or knows to javascript. JavaScript have some Inbuilt functions that can be used to perform various tasks.

- `alert()`: Displays an alert box with a message and an OK button.
- `console.log()`: Displays a message or value in the browser console for debugging purposes.
- `parseInt()`: Converts a string to an integer.
- `parseFloat()` : Converts a string to a floating-point number.
- `prompt()`: Displays a dialog box that prompts the user to input a value.

2.  `User Defined function`: User defined function means you can define your own functions using the function keyword.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   29. What is an arrow function in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

`Arrow functions` are anonymous, means that they don't have any name. They can be stored in a variable, passed as an argument to a function or returned as a value from a function.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  30. What are the inbuilt functions in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

`Inbuilt function` means that meaning is already define or knows to javascript. JavaScript have some Inbuilt functions that can be used to perform various tasks.

1. `alert()`: Displays an alert box with a message and an OK button.
2. `console.log()`: Displays a message or value in the browser console for debugging purposes.
3. `parseInt()`: Converts a string to an integer.
4. `parseFloat()` : Converts a string to a floating-point number.
5. `prompt()`: Displays a dialog box that prompts the user to input a value.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   31. What is the use of parseInt() function? </summary>
<p>

The `parseInt` function is used to convert a string to an integer.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  32. What is break and continue statments in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

The `break` statement is used to terminate the entire loop. The `continue` statement is used to skip the current iteration.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  33. What is the difference between an alert() and a confirmation()? </summary>
<p>

The `alert()` function displays a message to the user in a pop up box and waits for the user to click the OK button.

The `confirm()` function displays a message to the user in a pop up box and waits for the user to click either the `OK` or the `Cancel` button.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   34. What is the use of getElementById() method in JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

`getElementById()` method selects an element in the document that has specific ID.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  35. What is the purpose of the return statement in a function? </summary>
<p>

The `return` statement is used to specify the value that the function should return when it is called. When the function executes the `return` statement it exits the function and returns the specified value.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary> 36. What is the difference between function declarations and function expressions?</summary>
<p>

The difference between function declarations and function expressions is that `function declarations` can be called before they are defined and `function expressions` must be defined before they are called.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  37. What are the rules for naming variables in JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

Rules for naming variables in JavaScript:

- Variable names must start with a letter, underscore (\_), or dollar sign ($).
- Variable name contains digit.
- Variable names are case sensitive.
  For example: `Variable` and `variable` are two different variables.
- Variable names should be meaningful.
- Variable names cannot use reserved keywords in JavaScript.
  For example: if, else, let, const.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>    38. What are the primitive dataype in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

`Primitive datatypes` are immutable means they cannot be changed once they are created. There are `7` primitive datatypes.

1. `number`: It is used to represent both `integer` and `floating-point` numbers.

2. `null` : It is used to represent `invalid value`.

3. `String`: String is a sequence of character. It is represented in `single` quotes and `double` quotes.

4. `Symbol`: It is used to stored unique value.

5. `Boolean`: `boolean` is used to returns true or false value.

6. `Big-int`: `Big-int` is used to store numbers which above limitations of number. It can store `large integer`.

7. `undefined`: It is used to represent variable that has not been assigned value.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>    39. How do you concatenate strings in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

You can concatenate strings in JavaScript using the `+` operator or the `concat()` method.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>    40. What are the basic arithmetic operators in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

The `arithmetic operator` is used to perform mathematical operations.
The basic arithmetic operators are

- addition
- subtraction
- multiplication
- dividation
- modules

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>    41. What is the difference between a parameter and an argument in JavaScript functions? </summary>
<p>

The difference between parameter and argument is the `Parameters` are variables that are defined in the function definition.  
 `Arguments` are the values that are passed to the function when it is called.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  42. How do you return a value from a JavaScript function? </summary>
<p>

You can return a value from a function using the `return` statement.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>   43. How do you select an element by its ID in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

You can select an element by its ID using `getElementById` method. It is used to retrieve a reference to an HTML element with a specific identifier or ID.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary> 44. What is the difference between getElementById() and getElementsByClassName()?</summary>
<p>

The difference between getElementById() and getElementsByClassName() is that the `getElementById()` selects an element in the document that has specific ID. And `getElementsByClassName()` selects an element by their class name.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary> 45. How can you select multiple elements with the same class name in JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

You can select multiple elements with the same class name in JavaScript you can use he `getElementsByClassName` method. This method selects element in the document by using class name.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  46. How can you add a CSS class to an element using JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

You can add CSS to an element using JavaScript by using the element's `style` property. The `style` property represents the inline style of the elementt.

</p>

</details>

<details>
<summary>  47. What are the different methods available in JavaScript for selecting elements from the DOM? </summary>
<p>

You can select elements from the DOM by using the following methods:

`document.getElementById()`: It selects the element with the specified `id` attribute.<br/>
`document.getElementByClassName()`: It selectst all elements with specified `class` name.<br/>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>    48. How does the querySelector method differ from querySelectorAll when selecting elements?</summary>
<p>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>  49. How do you select all elements with a specific class using JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

To select all elements with a specific class using JavaScript you can use `getElementByClassName` method.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>     50. What is loop in Javascript?</summary>
<p>

`Loop` is used to execute give code block repetitively & continuously. There are three types of loops in JavaScript.

- for
- while
- do-while

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>51. What are the different types of loops available in JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

There are three types of loop such as for, while and do-while.

1. **for loop -**
   The for loop is the most commonly used loop in JavaScript. It iterates over a block of code a specific number of times.

**Syntax :**

```html
for (initialization; condition; expression) { // code to be executed }
```

Here, In the above syntax

- **Initialization** : It is usually a variable declaration and initialization.

- **Condition** : This is where you specify the condition that must be true for the loop to continue executing. If the condition is false, the loop will terminate.

- **Expression** : This is where you update the value of the loop counter after each iteration.

For Example

```js
for (let i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
  document.write("<br/> Hello Students");
}
```

In the above example, `let i=0;` initializes a variable `i` with a value of 0. i<5; sets the condition for the loop to continue running, which is that `i` must be less than `5`. `i++` increments `i` by `1` after each iteration of the loop. `document.write("<br/> Hello Students");` writes the string `"<br/> Hello Students"` to the HTML document.

2. **while loop -** In a while loop, the loop executes as long as the condition is true.

**Syntax :**

```js
while (condition) {
  // code block to be executed
}
```

For Example,

```js
let i = 0;
while (i < 10) {
  console.log(i);
  i++;
}
```

In the above example this loop initializes `i` to `0` and continues to execute as long as `i` is less than `10`. On each iteration of the loop, the value of `i` is printed to the console using `console.log()`, and then `i` is incremented by `1` using `i++`.

3. **do-while loop** -
   You can also use a do-while loop, which is similar to a while loop but guarantees that the loop body is executed at least once.

**Syntax :**

```js
do {
  // statements to be executed inside the loop
} while (condition);
```

For Example,

```js
let i = 0;

do {
  console.log(i);
  i++;
} while (i < 10);
```

In the above example this loop initializes `i` to 0 and executes the loop body at least once. On each iteration of the loop, the value of i is printed to the console using `console.log()`, and then `i` is incremented by `1` using `i++`. The loop continues to execute as long as `i` is less than `10`.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>52. What is the purpose of break keyword and continue keyword in Javascript?</summary>
<p>

**break :** Break keyword is used to immediately terminate a loop and resume execution at the next statement after the loop.

For Example,

```js
for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  if (i == 5) {
    break;
  }
  console.log(i);
}
```

In the above example, for loop that starts at 0 and iterates up to `9`, with `i` being the loop counter variable.

During each iteration of the loop, it checks if `i` is equal to `5` using an if statement. If `i` is equal to `5`, then the break statement is executed, causing the loop to terminate immediately and skip the remaining iterations.

If `i` is not equal to `5`, then the loop continues to execute normally and the `console.log(i)` statement is executed, which prints the current value of `i` to the console.

**continue :** Continue keyword is used to skip the current iteration of a loop and move on to the next iteration.

For Example,

```js
for (const i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  if (i % 2 === 0) {
    continue;
  }
  console.log(i);
}
```

In the above example, for loop that starts at `0` and iterates up to `9`, with `i` being the loop counter variable.

During each iteration of the loop, it checks if i is divisible by `2` (i.e., if i % 2 === 0) using an if statement. If i is divisible by `2`, then the continue statement is executed, causing the current iteration of the loop to be skipped and moving on to the next iteration.

If `i` is not divisible by `2`, then the loop continues to execute normally and the `console.log(i)` statement is executed, which prints the current value of `i` to the console.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>53. What is the difference between while and do-while loop?</summary>
<p>

| while loop                                                                                           | do-while loop                                                                                      |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| while-loop checks the condition before executing the loop body.                                      | do-while loop executes the loop body at least once and then checks the condition.                  |
| **Syntax :** while (condition) { // code block }                                                     | **Syntax :** do { // code block } while (condition);                                               |
| Condition is evaluated at the beginning of each iteration. If it evaluates to false, the loop stops. | Condition is evaluated at the end of each iteration. If it evaluates to false, the loop stops.     |
| **Example :** <br/>let i = 0;<br/> while (i < 5) <br/>{ <br/>console.log(i);<br/> i++; <br/>}        | **Example :** <br/> let i = 0;<br/> do {<br/> console.log(i);<br/> i++; <br/>} <br/>while (i < 5); |

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>54. What is array in Javascript and how to define array?</summary>
<p>

Single variable which can store multiple values. An array is a data structure that allows you to store a collection of elements, such as numbers, strings, objects, or other arrays, in a single variable. Arrays are defined using square brackets `[]` and each element in the array is separated by a `comma`. Array index always start from `0`.

For Example,

```js
const students = ["Harsh", "Kashifa", "Yogita", "Ankita", "Vrushali"];
console.log(students);
```

In the above example, we can defines an array called `students` with five elements: `Harsh`, `Kashifa`, `Yogita`, `Ankita`, and `Vrushali`. The `console.log()` function is then used to print the entire `students` array to the console.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>55. Which methods are present in an array ? </summary>
<p>

There are some methods in array such as,

1. **length -** To count total elements in the array.

For Example,

```js
let marks = [50, 45, 30, 20, 10];
marks.length;
```

In the above example, we can defines an array called marks with five elements: `50`, `45`, `30`, `20`, and `10`.
The length property of the marks array is then accessed using the `.` notation and returned. The length property returns the number of elements in the array, which is `5` in this case.

2. **push() -** To add element from the end of array.

For Example,

```js
const students = ["A", "B", "C", "D"];
console.log(students);
students.push("E");
console.log(students);
```

In the above example, we can defines an array called students with four elements: `A`, `B`, `C`, and `D`. The first `console.log()` function is then used to print the entire students array to the console. The `push()` method is then called on the students array with the argument `E`. This adds the string `E` as a new element at the end of the students array. The second `console.log()` function is then used to print the updated students array to the console.

3. **pop()-** To remove element from the end of array

For Example,

```js
const students = ["A", "B", "C", "D"];
console.log(students);
students.pop();
console.log(students);
```

In the above example, we can defines an array called students with four elements: `A`, `B`, `C`, and `D`. The first `console.log()` function is then used to print the entire students array to the console. The `pop()` method is then called on the students array. This removes the last element `D` from the students array. The second `console.log()` function is then used to print the updated students array to the console

4. **unshift() -** To insert element from the start of array.

For Example,

```js
const students = ["A", "B", "C", "D"];
console.log(students);
students.unshift("E");
console.log(students);
```

In the above code we defines an array called students with four elements: `A`, `B`, `C`, and `D`. The first `console.log()` function is then used to print the entire students array to the console. The `unshift()` method is then called on the students array with the argument `E`. This adds the string E as a new element at the beginning of the students array. The second `console.log()` function is then used to print the updated students array to the console.

5. **shift() -** To delete elements from the start of array.

For Example,

```js
const students = ["A", "B", "C", "D"];
console.log(students);
students.shift();
console.log(students);
```

In the above code we defines an array called students with four elements: `A`, `B`, `C`, and `D`.The first `console.log()` function is then used to print the entire students array to the console. The `shift()` method is then called on the students array. This removes the first element `A` from the students array. The second `console.log()` function is then used to print the updated students array to the console.

6. **splice()-** This function can perform insertion and deletion at once.

**Syntax :**

```js
splice(index, no.of elements to delete, elements to insert)
```

For Example,

```js
const students = ["A", "B", "C", "D", "E", "F"];
console.log(students);
students.splice(1, 2, "W", "Q");
console.log(students);
```

In the above example, we can defines an array called students with six elements: `A`, `B`, `C`, `D`, `E`, and `F`. The first `console.log()` function is then used to print the entire students array to the console. The `splice()` method is then called on the students array with the arguments `1`, `2`, `W`, and `Q`. This removes two elements starting from the index `1`, which removes `B` and `C`, and inserts two new elements W and `Q` in their place. The second `console.log()` function is then used to print the updated students array to the console.

7. **join() -** Convert array to string default separator is `,` but we can change it.

```js
const students = ["A", "B", "C", "D", "E", "F"];
console.log(students.join("*"));
```

8. **reverse() -** It is used ti reverse the array.

For Example,

```js
const arr = ["A", "B", "C", "D"];
arr.reverse();
console.log(arr);
```

9. **sort()-** It is used to sort array in ascending and decending order.

For Example,

```js
const arr = ["Z", "A", "D", "B"];
arr.sort();
console.log(arr);
```

10. **indexOf() -** It check the index of given array.

For Example,

```js
const arr = ["Z", "A", "D", "B"];
const index = arr.indexOf("A");
console.log(index);
```

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>56. What is the purpose of length in an array ? </summary>
<p>

In JavaScript, the length property is used to determine the number of elements in an array. It represents the size or the number of items present in the array. The length property is automatically updated when elements are added to or removed from the array.

**length() -** To count total elements in the array.

For Example,

```js
let marks = [50, 45, 30, 20, 10, 15, 120];
marks.length;
```

In the above example, we can defines an array called marks with seven elements: `50`, `45`, `30`, `20`, `10`,`15` and `120`. The length property of the marks array is then accessed using the `.` notation and returned. The length property returns the number of elements in the array, which is `7` in this case.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>57. Why we used push() method in an array? </summary>
<p>

The `push()` method in JavaScript is used to add one or more elements to the end of an array. It modifies the original array by appending the new element(s) to the existing elements. The `push()` method is a convenient way to dynamically add elements to an array without specifying their positions.

For Example,

```js
let fruits = ["apple", "banana"];

fruits.push("orange"); // Add 'orange' to the end of the array
console.log(fruits); // Output: ['apple', 'banana', 'orange']

fruits.push("grape", "mango"); // Add multiple elements to the end
console.log(fruits); // Output: ['apple', 'banana', 'orange', 'grape', 'mango']
```

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>59. Explain the used of pop() method in an array?</summary>
<p>

**pop()-** The pop() method in JavaScript is used to remove the last element from an array and return that element. It modifies the original array by reducing its length by one.

For Example,

```js
const students = ["A", "B", "C", "D"];
console.log(students);
students.pop();
console.log(students);
```

In the above example, we can defines an array called students with four elements: `A`, `B`, `C`, and `D`. The first `console.log()` function is then used to print the entire students array to the console. The `pop()` method is then called on the students array. This removes the last element `D` from the students array. The second `console.log()` function is then used to print the updated students array to the console

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>60. What is the difference between unshift() and shift() method in an array?</summary>
<p>

| unshift() Method                                                           | shift() Method                                                                                           |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Adds one or more elements to the beginning of an array.                    | Removes the first element from an array and returns it.                                                  |
| **Syntax :** array.unshift(element1, element2, ..., elementN);             | **Syntax :** array.shift();                                                                              |
| The new length of the array after adding the elements.                     | The element that is removed from the array.                                                              |
| The original array is modified by adding elements to the beginning.        | The original array is modified by removing the first element.                                            |
| **Example :** <br/> let numbers = [2, 3, 4];<br/> numbers.unshift(1);      | **Example :**<br/> let numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4]; <br/>let firstElement = numbers.shift();                  |
| **Result :** numbers becomes [1, 2, 3, 4] after adding 1 to the beginning. | **Result :** numbers becomes [2, 3, 4] after removing the first element, and firstElement is assigned 1. |

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>61. How can I perform both insertion and deletion of elements in an array simultaneously? Which methods should I use for these operations? </summary>
<p>

To perform both insertion and deletion of elements in an array simultaneously, you can use a combination of the `splice()` and `concat()` methods in JavaScript. Here's how you can achieve this:

1. **Insertion and Deletion :** The splice() method allows you to remove elements from an array and optionally insert new elements in their place. It modifies the original array.

Syntax for splice() :

```js
array.splice(startIndex, deleteCount, item1, item2, ..., itemN);
```

- **startIndex :** The index at which to start removing or inserting elements.
- **deleteCount :** The number of elements to remove from the array (optional).
- **item1, item2, ..., itemN :** The elements to insert into the array (optional).

2. **Simultaneous Operations :** To perform both insertion and deletion, you can combine splice() with the concat() method. The concat() method is used to concatenate arrays or values and returns a new array. By using splice() to remove elements and concat() to add new elements, you can achieve simultaneous insertion and deletion.

```js
let numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

let removedElements = numbers.splice(1, 2); // Remove elements at index 1 and 2 (2 and 3)
let newArray = numbers.concat(["a", "b", "c"]); // Add new elements to the resulting array

console.log(removedElements); // Output: [2, 3]
console.log(newArray); // Output: [1, 4, 5, 'a', 'b', 'c']
```

In this example, the splice() method is used to remove elements at index 1 and 2 from the numbers array. The removed elements are stored in removedElements. Then, the concat() method is used to add new elements (a, b, c) to the resulting array, creating a new array called newArray.
By combining splice() and concat(), you can effectively perform both insertion and deletion operations on an array simultaneously.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>62. How do you search for a specific element in an array? </summary>
<p>

To search for a specific element in an array, you can use various approaches in JavaScript. Here are a few common methods:

**indexOf():** The indexOf() method searches for the first occurrence of a specified element in an array and returns its index. If the element is not found, it returns -1. It check the index of given array.

For Example,

```js
const arr = ["Z", "A", "D", "B"];
const index = arr.indexOf("A");
console.log(index);
```

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>63. How do you insert an element at a specific position in an array?</summary>
<p>

In JavaScript, you can insert an element at a specific position in an array using the splice() method. The splice() method allows you to modify an array by adding or removing elements.

For Example,

```js
// Original array
const array = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

// Inserting element 6 at position 2
array.splice(2, 0, 6);

console.log(array); // Output: [1, 2, 6, 3, 4, 5]
```

In the `splice()` method, the 1st argument specifies the index at which you want to start modifying the array. The 2nd argument specifies the number of elements you want to remove. The remaining arguments represent the elements you want to insert at that position.

In the example above, we start at index `2`, remove `0` elements, and insert the value `6`. As a result, the element `6` is inserted at position `2`, and the array is updated accordingly.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>64. How do you insert an element at the end of an array? </summary>
<p>

To insert an element at the end of an array in JavaScript, you can use the `push()` method. The `push()` method adds one or more elements to the end of an array and returns the new length of the array.

```js
// Original array
const array = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

// Inserting element 6 at the end
array.push(6);

console.log(array); // Output: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
```

In the above example, the `push()` method is called on the array and the element `6` is passed as an argument. The `push()` method adds the element `6` to the end of the array, and the modified array is `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]`.

Using the `push()` method is the simplest and most straightforward way to insert an element at the end of an array in JavaScript.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>65. What is the difference between a static array and a dynamic array?</summary>
<p>

| Static Array                                          | Dynamic Array                                                |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Has a fixed size once it is defined                   | Can change its size dynamically                              |
| Requires pre-allocation of memory for a specific size | Allocates memory dynamically as elements are added/removed   |
| Cannot be resized or extended once created            | Can be resized or extended as needed                         |
| Deleting elements leaves empty spaces in the array    | Deleting elements automatically adjusts the array size       |
| Requires manual management of array size and indices  | Automatically handles memory allocation and resizing         |
| Generally more memory-efficient due to fixed size.    | Can be more flexible but may require more memory             |
| **Example:** const array = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];           | **Example:** const array = []; array.push(1); array.push(2); |

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>66. Explain the concept of an array and its advantages in programming.</summary>
<p>

Single variable which can store multiple values. An array is a data structure that allows you to store a collection of elements, such as numbers, strings, objects, or other arrays, in a single variable. Arrays are defined using square brackets `[]` and each element in the array is separated by a comma.Array index always start from `0`.

- **Advantages of an Array :**

1. Dynamic resizing : Arrays can grow or shrink using methods like push(), pop(), and more.

2. Easy element access : Elements are accessed using their index.

3. Iterating over elements : Built-in methods like forEach(), map(), and filter() simplify iteration.

4. Mixed data types : Arrays can hold different data types.

5. Preserving order : Elements maintain the order they are inserted in.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>67. How do you sort an array in ascending order which method we can use in Javascript?</summary>
<p>

In JavaScript, you can use the `sort()` method to sort an array in ascending order. The `sort()` method sorts the elements of an array in place and returns the sorted array.

For Example,

```js
const array = [5, 2, 8, 1, 4];
array.sort((a, b) => a - b);

console.log(array);
```

In the above example, we define an array array with some elements. We then call the sort() method on the array and pass it a comparison function `(a, b) => a - b`. This comparison function subtracts `b` from `a`, resulting in a negative value if `a` is less than `b`, `a` positive value if a is greater than `b`, and zero if a and `b` are equal. By providing this comparison function, the sort() method sorts the array in ascending order based on the numerical values of its elements.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>68. How do you reverse the elements of an array?</summary>
<p>

In JavaScript, you can use the `reverse()` method to reverse the elements of an array. The `reverse()` method modifies the array in place, meaning it changes the original array without creating a new one.

For Example,

```js
const array = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
array.reverse();

console.log(array);
```

In the above example, we define an array array with some elements. We then call the `reverse()` method on the array, which reverses the order of its elements.

If you want to keep the original array intact and create a new array with the reversed elements, you can make a copy of the array using the `slice()` method before applying the `reverse()` method.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>69. What is an object in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

An object is a data type that represents a collection of properties. It is one of the fundamental concepts in the language and plays a central role in JavaScript programming.

An object in JavaScript is a container for `key-value` pairs, where each key is a string (or symbol) and each value can be of any data type, including other objects. This allows you to group related data and functionality together.

Objects can be created using object literals, which use curly braces `{ }` to define the object and its properties.

For example,

```js
let person = {
  name: "John",
  age: 30,
  isStudent: true,
  sayHello: function () {
    console.log("Hello!");
  },
};
```

In the above example, the person object has properties such as `name`, `age`, and `isStudent`, which can store different types of values. It also has a method (function) called `sayHello`.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>70. What is the purpose of JSON in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data interchange format that is widely used in JavaScript and many other programming languages. It serves as a standardized format for representing structured data as text.

**Data Interchange :** JSON provides a simple and readable format for exchanging data between systems or languages, commonly used in web applications.

**Data Storage :** JSON is widely used for persisting data to files or databases due to its serialization capabilities.

**API Communication :** JSON is a popular data format for communication between web APIs and JavaScript applications, making it easy to parse and process data.

**Configuration Files :** JSON is frequently used for storing application configurations, offering a structured and readable format for defining parameters and options.

**Object Serialization :** JSON is an effective method for serializing JavaScript objects into strings, suitable for storage, transmission, or later reconstruction.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>71. How to store element in JSON object?</summary>
<p>

To store elements in a JSON object in JavaScript, you can create an object and assign values to its properties.

```js
const student = {
  name: "xyz",
  age: 20,
  mobile: "9822775100",
  email: "xyz@gmail.com",
};
console.log(student.mobile);
```

The above code we creates an object named `student` with properties such as `name`, `age`, `mobile`, and `email`. The `console.log(student.mobile)` statement accesses the mobile property of the student object using dot and logs its value to the console.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>72. What is event in JavaScript and what are their type?</summary>
<p>

JavaScript interacts with HTML through events when the browser manipulates the page. When a page loads, it's called an event. When user clicks on a button, that click is also an event.

**Types of events in javascript :**

- onClick
- onChange
- onmouseover
- onmouseout
- onkeydown
- onload

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>73. How do you handle onclick and onmouseover event in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

**onClick -** The onClick event occurs when the user clicks on an element.

```js
<button onClick="alert(Message is send)">Send Message</button>
```

In the above code we creates a button element that, when clicked, triggers a JavaScript `alert` function with the message `Message is send`. This is a simple way to provide feedback to the user when they interact with the button.

**onmouseover-** The onmouseover event occurs when the pointer is moved onto an element.

```js
<button onmouseover = "alert('Button is clicked..')"> Send Message
```

When a user hovers their mouse over the button, an `alert` will appear saying `Button is clicked...` However, this message is a show since the code will only trigger when the mouse is hovered over the button, not when it's actually clicked. If the goal is to trigger an alert when the button is clicked, the code should be modified to include an `onclick` event listener instead of `onmouseover`.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>74. How do you handle keyboard events in JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

1. Add an event listener to capture keyboard events:

For Example,

```javascript
document.addEventListener("keydown", function (event) {
  // Event handling code
});
```

2. Access the key information from the event object:

For Example,

```javascript
document.addEventListener("keydown", function (event) {
  const key = event.key;
  const keyCode = event.keyCode;
  const shiftPressed = event.shiftKey;
  const ctrlPressed = event.ctrlKey;
});
```

3. Perform actions based on the key or key combination:

For Example,

```javascript
document.addEventListener("keydown", function (event) {
  if (event.key === "Enter") {
    // Perform an action when the enter key is pressed
    console.log("Enter key pressed");
  }
});
```

4. Remove the event listener when no longer needed:

For Example,

```javascript
function myEventHandler(event) {
  // Event handling code
}

// Adding event listener
document.addEventListener("keydown", myEventHandler);

// Removing event listener
document.removeEventListener("keydown", myEventHandler);
```

For Example,

Handling the Enter key press to submit a form:

```javascript
document.addEventListener("keydown", function (event) {
  if (event.key === "Enter") {
    event.preventDefault(); // Prevent the default form submission
    submitForm(); // Call a function to submit the form
  }
});
```

This example listens for the Enter key press and prevents the default form submission behavior by using `event.preventDefault()`. It then calls a function `submitForm()` to handle the form submission logic.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>75. How do you stop event propagation? </summary>
<p>

In JavaScript, event propagation refers to the process by which an event is handled by nested elements, starting from the target element and bubbling up through its parent elements, or alternatively, capturing down from the parent elements to the target element. Event propagation occurs by default unless it is explicitly stopped.

To stop event propagation, you can use the stopPropagation() method available on the event object.

For Example,

```JS
element.addEventListener('click', function(event) {
  event.stopPropagation(); // Stop event propagation
  // Event handling code
});
```

In the above example, the click event listener is added to an element (element). When the element is clicked, the event handler function is executed. By calling event.stopPropagation(), the propagation of the event to parent or child elements is halted, and the event will not trigger any further event listeners that may be attached to ancestor or descendant elements.

</p>
</details>
 
 <details>
<summary>76. What is the difference between dot notation and bracket notation when accessing object properties? </summary>
<p>

| Dot Notation                                                           | Bracket Notation                                                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Requires a valid JavaScript identifier for the property name           | Allows any string as the property name, including spaces and special characters                        |
| Commonly used for accessing object properties with known, static names | Often used when the property name is dynamic or not known in advance                                   |
| Syntax: object.propertyName                                            | Syntax: object['propertyName']                                                                         |
| Used in object literals for setting property values                    | Useful for accessing properties using variables or expressions to compute the property name at runtime |

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>77. How do you select an element by its ID in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

To select an element by its ID in JavaScript, you can use the `getElementById()` method. Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
const element = document.getElementById("yourElementId");
```

In the above code, `'yourElementId'` represents the ID attribute of the element you want to select. The `getElementById()` method is called on the `document` object, which refers to the entire HTML document. It returns a reference to the element with the specified ID.

Once you have selected the element, you can perform various operations on it, such as modifying its content, applying styles, adding event listeners, or accessing its properties.

Here's an example that selects an element by its ID and changes its text content:

HTML:

```html
<div id="myElement">Hello, World!</div>
```

JavaScript:

```javascript
var element = document.getElementById("myElement");
element.textContent = "Modified text";
```

In this example, the element with the ID `'myElement'` is selected using `getElementById()`, and its `textContent` property is updated to `'Modified text'`. This will change the displayed text content of the element to `'Modified text'`.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>78. How do you select elements by their class name in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

To select elements by their class name in JavaScript, you can use the `getElementsByClassName()` method. Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
var elements = document.getElementsByClassName("yourClassName");
```

In the above code, `'yourClassName'` represents the class name of the elements you want to select. The `getElementsByClassName()` method is called on the `document` object, which refers to the entire HTML document. It returns a live HTMLCollection or a NodeList (depending on the browser) containing all elements with the specified class name.

Once you have selected the elements, you can loop through the collection and perform operations on each individual element, such as modifying their content, applying styles, adding event listeners, or accessing their properties.

Here's an example that selects elements by their class name and applies a CSS style to each element:

HTML:

```html
<p class="highlight">First paragraph</p>
<p class="highlight">Second paragraph</p>
<p>Third paragraph</p>
```

JavaScript:

```javascript
const elements = document.getElementsByClassName("highlight");
for (var i = 0; i < elements.length; i++) {
  elements[i].style.color = "red";
}
```

In this example, the elements with the class name `'highlight'` are selected using `getElementsByClassName()`, and a `for` loop is used to iterate over the collection. For each element, the `style.color` property is set to `'red'`, which applies a red color to the text of the elements.

Keep in mind that, the `getElementsByClassName()` method returns a live collection, which means if elements with the specified class name are added or removed dynamically, the collection will automatically update to reflect those changes.

Note: If you only want to select a single element by its class name (assuming it is unique), you can use other methods such as `querySelector()` or `querySelectorAll()` with the CSS class selector (`.yourClassName`) to achieve the same result.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>79. What is the difference between for and while loops in JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

| for Loop                                                                                     | while Loop                                                                         |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Used when the number of iterations is known or iterating over a range                        | Used when the number of iterations is not known in advance                         |
| Consists of initialization, condition, and increment/decrement                               | Relies on a condition that is evaluated before each iteration                      |
| Initialization, condition, and increment/decrement are all defined within the loop statement | Condition and iteration updates need to be managed manually within the loop        |
| Commonly used for iterating over arrays or known ranges                                      | Useful when the loop termination depends on external factors or complex conditions |

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>80. What is an infinite loop, and how do you avoid it in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

An infinite loop is a loop that continues executing indefinitely, without ever terminating. It occurs when the loop condition always evaluates to true or when there is no mechanism to exit the loop.

Example of an infinite loop:

```javascript
while (true) {}
```

In this example, the loop condition is always `true`, which means the loop will keep executing endlessly.

Infinite loops can cause your program to become unresponsive and consume excessive system resources, leading to poor performance or even crashing the program or browser.

To avoid infinite loops in JavaScript, you need to ensure that your loop has a termination condition that will eventually evaluate to false, allowing the loop to exit. Here are a few ways to prevent infinite loops:

1. Use a Loop Counter:

```javascript
var counter = 0;
while (counter < 10) {
  counter++;
}
```

By incrementing or decrementing a loop counter variable, you provide a mechanism for the loop to eventually terminate.

2. Use Conditional Statements:

```javascript
const condition = true;
while (condition) {
  // Code to be executed

  if (/* Some condition that should break the loop */) {
    condition = false; // Set condition to false to exit the loop
  }
}
```

By checking a specific condition within the loop, you can update a variable that controls the loop execution and break out of the loop when necessary.

3. Use `break` Statement:

```javascript
while (true) {
  // Code to be executed

  if (/* Some condition that should break the loop */) {
    break; // Terminate the loop
  }
}
```

The `break` statement can be used to exit the loop at any point, regardless of the loop condition. It breaks out of the nearest enclosing loop.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>81. What is an parseFloat() function in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

The `parseFloat()` function in JavaScript is used to parse a string and convert it to a floating-point number (decimal number). It extracts the numeric value from the beginning of the string until it encounters an invalid character.

Syntax:

```js
parseFloat(string);
```

Here, `string` is the value to be parsed and converted to a floating-point number. It can be a string representation of a number, including an optional sign (+/-), digits (0-9), decimal point (.), and an optional exponent (e/E) indicating the power of 10.

The `parseFloat()` function performs the following steps:

1. It skips leading whitespace characters.
2. It parses the numeric value from the beginning of the string until an invalid character is encountered.
3. It returns the parsed floating-point number. If the string doesn't contain any valid numeric characters, it returns `NaN` (Not-a-Number).

Examples:

```javascript
const number1 = parseFloat("3.14"); // Returns 3.14
const number2 = parseFloat("10"); // Returns 10
const number3 = parseFloat("123ABC"); // Returns 123
```

In the examples above, `parseFloat()` converts the given strings into floating-point numbers.

In the first two examples, valid numeric strings are provided, so the corresponding floating-point numbers are returned.

In the third example, the parsing stops at the first non-numeric character, "A", and the parsed value is returned.

The `parseFloat()` function is useful for extracting numeric values from strings, such as when you need to convert user input or parse numerical data stored as strings in your JavaScript code.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>82. What are escape characters in Javascript? </summary>
<p>

Escape characters are special characters that are used to represent characters that cannot be easily entered or displayed directly. They are represented by a backslash (`\`) followed by a specific character or code.

Escape characters are used to include characters that have special meaning or are difficult to represent directly in a string. Some common escape characters in JavaScript include:

- `\'` - Single quote
- `\"` - Double quote
- `\\` - Backslash
- `\n` - Newline
- `\t` - Tab
- `\b` - Backspace
- `\f` - Form feed

Here are a few examples to illustrate the usage of escape characters:

```js
const message1 = "This is a single-quoted string with 'escaped' characters.";
const message2 = 'This is a double-quoted string with "escaped" characters.';
const path = "C:\\Users\\Username\\Documents";
const multiline = "This is a multiline\nstring.";
const tabbed = "This\tstring\tis\ttabbed.";

console.log(message1);
console.log(message2);
console.log(path);
console.log(multiline);
console.log(tabbed);
```

In the above example, the escape characters are used to include single quotes and double quotes within the respective string types, represent backslashes, introduce newlines, tabs, and other special characters. The `path` variable demonstrates how to include a literal backslash in a string by escaping it with another backslash.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>83. How does the do-while loop work in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

The `do-while` loop is a type of loop where the loop block is executed first, and then the condition is checked. If the condition is true, the loop block is executed again. The loop continues until the condition evaluates to false.

**Syntax:**

```js
do {
  // Code to be executed
} while (condition);
```

Here's how the `do-while` loop works:

1. The loop block is executed unconditionally for the first time.
2. After executing the loop block, the condition is checked.
3. If the condition is true, the loop block is executed again.
4. The loop continues until the condition becomes false. Once the condition is false, the loop is terminated, and the program flow continues with the next statement after the loop.

The `do-while` loop guarantees that the loop block will be executed at least once, regardless of the condition.

Example:

```javascript
const count = 0;
do {
  console.log(count);
  count++;
} while (count < 5);
```

In this example, the loop block will execute at least once because the condition is checked after the first iteration. The value of `count` is initially 0, and it increments by 1 in each iteration. The loop continues until `count` reaches 5.

The `do-while` loop is useful when you want to ensure that the loop block is executed at least once, even if the condition is initially false. It is commonly used when you need to validate user input or perform an action before checking the condition.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>84. How does the while loop work in JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

The `while` loop in JavaScript is a type of loop that repeatedly executes a block of code as long as a specified condition is true. It is known as a "pre-test" loop because the condition is checked before each iteration.

Syntax:

```javascript
while (condition) {
  // code to be executed
}
```

Here is how the `while` loop works:

1. The condition is checked before entering the loop. If the condition is true, the loop block is executed.
2. After executing the loop block, the condition is checked again.
3. If the condition is still true, the loop block is executed again, and this process continues until the condition evaluates to false.
4. Once the condition becomes false, the loop is terminated, and the program flow continues with the next statement after the loop.

The `while` loop may not execute at all if the condition is false from the beginning.

Example:

```js
const count = 0;
while (count < 5) {
  console.log(count);
  count++;
}
```

In this example, the loop will iterate as long as the value of `count` is less than 5. The value of `count` is initially 0, and it increments by 1 in each iteration. The loop continues until `count` reaches 5.

If the condition is false from the beginning, the loop block will not execute at all.

The `while` loop is useful when the number of iterations is not known in advance and depends on a specific condition. It allows you to repeat a block of code until the condition becomes false. However, you need to ensure that the condition eventually becomes false to prevent an infinite loop.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>85. How do you skip the current iteration and move to the next one in a loop?</summary>
<p>

To skip the current iteration and move to the next one in a loop, you can use the `continue` statement in JavaScript. The `continue` statement allows you to immediately jump to the next iteration of the loop without executing the remaining code within the loop block for the current iteration.

Here's how you can use the `continue` statement in a loop:

```js
for (const i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
  if (condition) {
    continue; // Skip the current iteration and move to the next one
  }

  // Code to be executed for each iteration
}
```

In the example above, `condition` represents the condition that determines whether to skip the current iteration. If the condition evaluates to true, the `continue` statement is encountered, and the loop immediately jumps to the next iteration without executing the remaining code within the loop block.

Example to illustrate how the `continue` statement works:

```js
for (const i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
  if (i === 2) {
    continue; // Skip iteration when i is 2
  }
  console.log(i);
}
```

In the above example, when the loop variable `i` is equal to 2, the `continue` statement is triggered, and the code within the loop block for that iteration is skipped. The loop moves on to the next iteration, and the remaining values are printed.

The `continue` statement is useful when you need to bypass specific iterations based on certain conditions within the loop. It allows you to selectively skip certain iterations and continue with the next one.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>86. What are the difference between push() and pop() method?</summary>
<p>

| push() Method                                              | pop() Method                                             |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| Used to add elements to the end of an array                | Used to remove and return the last element of an array   |
| Modifies the original array by adding one or more elements | Modifies the original array by removing the last element |
| Returns the new length of the array                        | Returns the removed element                              |
| Multiple elements can be added at once                     | Only removes one element at a time                       |
| **Example:** <br/>array.push(element1, element2)           | **Example:**<br/> const lastElement = array.pop()        |

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>87. How does the for loop work in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

The `for` loop in JavaScript is a control flow statement that allows you to repeatedly execute a block of code for a specified number of iterations. It consists of three optional parts: initialization, condition, and iteration.

Syntax:

```javascript
for (initialization; condition; iteration) {
  // code to be executed in each iteration
}
```

Here's how the `for` loop works:

1. **Initialization:** This part is optional. It is typically used to initialize a counter variable before the loop starts. For example, `const i = 0;`.

2. **Condition:** This part is optional. It is evaluated before each iteration. If the condition is true, the loop block is executed. If the condition is false, the loop is terminated, and the program flow continues with the next statement after the loop.

3. **Iteration:** This part is optional. It is executed after each iteration. It typically updates the counter variable or performs any other necessary operations. For example, `i++` (incrementing the counter by 1).

The `for` loop follows this flow:

- Initialization is executed once before the loop starts.
- The condition is checked before each iteration. If it evaluates to true, the loop block is executed. If it evaluates to false, the loop is terminated.
- After each iteration, the iteration statement is executed, and then the condition is checked again.

For Example,

```javascript
for (const i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
  console.log(i);
}
```

In the above example, the loop initializes the variable `i` to 0. The condition `i < 5` is checked before each iteration, and the loop block is executed if the condition is true. After each iteration, `i` is incremented by 1 `i++`.

The loop continues until the condition `i < 5` becomes false. Once `i` reaches 5, the condition is no longer true, and the loop terminates.

The `for` loop is commonly used when the number of iterations is known or when iterating over a range of values. It provides a compact and convenient syntax for controlling the loop's initialization, condition, and iteration.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>88. What is the difference between onkeypress and onkeyup event? </summary>
<p>

| onkeypress Event                                                                               | onkeyup Event                                                                                     |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Fired when a key is pressed and the key is still held down                                     | Fired when a key is released after being pressed                                                  |
| Triggered continuously while a key is held down                                                | Triggered only once when a key is released                                                        |
| Does not capture special keys like Shift, Ctrl, Alt, or function keys                          | Captures all keys, including special keys like Shift, Ctrl, Alt, or function keys                 |
| Can be used to perform actions while a key is held down, such as continuous input or scrolling | Used to trigger an action once after a key is released                                            |
| Commonly used for capturing character input or controlling continuous interactions             | Commonly used for triggering actions based on key releases, such as form validation or navigation |

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>89. How do you create a JSON object in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

You can create a JSON object using curly braces `{}` and specifying key-value pairs.

For example,

```js
const person = {
  name: "xyz",
  age: 30,
  city: "New York City",
};
```

In the above example, we can create one variable. The name of that variable is `person` and store data into `key : value` pair.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>90. What is the difference between JSON and JavaScript object?  </summary>
<p>

| JSON                                           | JavaScript Object                                            |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Text-based data interchange format             | Data structure in JavaScript                                 |
| Requires property names to be in double quotes | Allows property names without quotes (for valid identifiers) |
| Doesn't support functions or methods           | Can have functions as properties                             |
| Subset of JavaScript object notation           | Full-fledged data structure in JavaScript                    |

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>91. How do you convert a JSON string to a JavaScript object?</summary>
<p>

To convert a JSON string to a JavaScript object, you can use the `JSON.parse()` method. This method takes a JSON string as input and returns a corresponding JavaScript object.

For Example,

```javascript
const jsonString = '{"name": "John", "age": 30, "city": "New York"}';
const person = JSON.parse(jsonString);
```

In the above example, the `jsonString` variable contains a JSON string representing a person's information. The `JSON.parse()` method is called with `jsonString` as the argument. The method parses the JSON string and returns a JavaScript object, which is assigned to the `person` variable.

Now, you can access the properties of the `person` object as you would with any JavaScript object:

```jS
console.log(person.name);  // Output: John
console.log(person.age);   // Output: 30
console.log(person.city);  // Output: New York
```

The `JSON.parse()` method is essential for converting JSON data received from an API or stored as a string into a usable JavaScript object. It allows you to work with the data in its structured form, accessing and manipulating the properties as needed within your JavaScript code.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>92.Why we can used break keyword in a switch statement in JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

The `break` keyword is used in a switch statement in JavaScript to terminate the execution of the switch block once a matching case is found. When a case is matched and its corresponding code block is executed, without a `break` statement, the program would continue executing the code blocks of subsequent cases until it reaches a `break` statement or the end of the switch block.

For Example,

```js
const fruit = "apple";

switch (fruit) {
  case "apple":
    console.log("It's an apple.");
    break;
  case "banana":
    console.log("It's a banana.");
    break;
  case "orange":
    console.log("It's an orange.");
    break;
  default:
    console.log("Unknown fruit.");
}
```

In the above example, once the case "apple" is matched, then execute the statement `console.log("It's an apple.")`, and then the `break` statement is encountered.

The break keyword in a switch statement causes the program to immediately exit the switch block. Then continue executing the code after the switch statement. It helps avoid executing unnecessary code blocks and ensures that the program flows smoothly after the switch statement.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>93. What is the difference between null and undefined in JavaScript?</summary>
<p>

| null                                                          | undefined                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| An assignment value                                           | A variable that has been declared but has not been assigned a value                                   |
| Represents the intentional absence of any object value        | Represents an uninitialized, missing, or unknown value                                                |
| You can explicitly assign null to a variable                  | Automatically assigned to variables that have not been assigned a value                               |
| Indicates that a variable is explicitly empty or has no value | Indicates that a variable has not been initialized or has not been assigned a value by the programmer |

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>94. How do you remove an element from the DOM in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

To remove an element from the DOM (Document Object Model) in JavaScript, you can use the `remove()` method or manipulate the parent element to remove the child element.

**remove() method:**

The `remove()` method is a convenient way to remove an element directly from the DOM. It is supported in most modern browsers.

```js
const element = document.getElementById("myElement");
element.remove();
```

In the above example, the `getElementById()` method is used to select the element with the specified ID. The `remove()` method is then called on the selected element, removing it from the DOM.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>95. How do you convert an object to an array in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

To convert an object to an array, you can use the `Object.keys()` methods. These methods allow you to extract the key-value pairs or keys of an object and convert them into an array format.

Using `Object.keys()` with array destructuring:

- The `Object.keys()` method returns an array of an object's own enumerable property keys.

```js
const obj = { a: 1, b: 2, c: 3 };
const arr = Object.keys(obj).map((key) => [key, obj[key]]);
```

In the above example, `Object.keys(obj)` returns an array `["a", "b", "c"]`. The `map()` method is then used to iterate over each key and create a subarray `[key, obj[key]]` for each key-value pair.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>96. How do you check the type of a variable in JavaScript? </summary>
<p>

By using the typeof() operator:

The typeof operator returns a string indicating the type of the operand.

```js
const x = 10;
console.log(typeof x); // Output: "number"

const y = "Hello";
console.log(typeof y); // Output: "string"

const z = true;
console.log(typeof z); // Output: "boolean"
```

In the above example, the typeof operator returns the following possible values: `undefined`, `boolean`, `number`, `string`, `bigint`, `symbol`.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>97. What is difference between in async and await in Javascript? </summary>
<p>

| async                                                                                                                  | await                                                                                                                                                    |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Used to declare an asynchronous function                                                                               | Used to pause the execution of an asynchronous function until a promise is resolved                                                                      |
| Async functions always return a promise                                                                                | Can only be used inside async functions                                                                                                                  |
| Allows the use of the await keyword within the function                                                                | Used before a promise to pause the execution and wait for the promise to resolve or reject                                                               |
| Simplifies working with promises and asynchronous code Awaits the completion of a promise, and then returns the result | Automatically wraps the function's return value in a resolved promise Resolves or rejects the promise based on the value returned by the awaited promise |
| Can be used with other control flow mechanisms like try...catch to handle errors                                       | Improves readability and reduces the need for .then() and .catch() callbacks                                                                             |

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>98. How do you use arrow function in Javascript?</summary>
<p>

To use an arrow function in JavaScript, there are some steps:

1. Declare a variable and assign an arrow function expression to it.
2. Provide the function's parameters (if any) within parentheses ().
3. Use the arrow => to separate the parameter list from the function body.
4. Write the function body or expression.
5. Optionally, if the function body is a single expression, apply the curly braces `{}` and the return keyword. The result of the expression will be implicitly returned.

For Example,

```js
const multiply = function (a, b) {
  return a * b;
};

// Arrow function
const multiplyArrow = (a, b) => a * b;
```

In the above example, we have defined a function expression `multiply` that takes two parameters `a` and `b` and returns their `product`.

The arrow function `multiplyArrow`, takes the same two parameters `a` and `b`, and the arrow `=>` separates the parameter list from the function body. Since the function body is a single expression `(a * b)`, we can apply the curly braces `{}` and the `return` keyword. The result of the expression `(a * b)` is implicitly returned by the arrow function.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>99. What is the used of Template String in Javascript? </summary>
<p>

Single String where we can `inject variable`.

Template strings are enclosed in backticks `( )` instead of single or double quotes. They allow for variables and expressions to be embedded directly into the string using the `${}` syntax.

For Example,

```js
const a = 10;
const b = 20;
const c = 30;

document.write(`a=${a}, b=${b}, c=${c}`);
```

In the above example, we can create three constants `a`, `b`, and `c` with the values `10`, `20`, and `30` respectively.

Then, it uses a template literal syntax to print out the values of these constants using the `document.write()` method. The output will be a string that says `a=10`, `b=20`, `c=30` and it will be written to the web page where this code is executed.

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>100. Which math functions are available in Javascript? </summary>
<p>

JavaScript provides a variety of built-in math functions that you can use for mathematical calculations. There are some commonly used math functions in JavaScript:

- Math.abs(x) : Returns the absolute value of x.
- Math.floor(x) : Rounds x down to the nearest integer.
- Math.round(x) : Rounds x to the nearest integer.
- Math.max(x1, x2, ..., xn) : Returns the highest value among the given arguments.
- Math.min(x1, x2, ..., xn) : Returns the lowest value among the given arguments.
- Math.random() : Returns a random number between 0 (inclusive) and 1 (exclusive).
- Math.sqrt(x) : Returns the square root of x.
- Math.pow(x, y) : Returns x raised to the power of y.

</p>
</details>
